README.rst, before:

ALGOPY, a library for Automatic Differentation (AD) in Python
-------------------------------------------------------------

Description:
    ALGOPY allows you to differentiate functions implemented as computer programs
    by using Algorithmic Differentiation (AD) techniques in the forward and
    reverse mode.
    
    Speciality of ALGOPY is the possibility to differentiate functions that contain
    matrix functions as +,-,*,/, dot, solve, qr, eigh, cholesky.

Rationale:
    ALGOPY is a research prototype striving to provide state of the art algorithms.
    The ultimative goal is to provide high performance algorithms
    that can be used to differentiate dynamic systems  (ODEs, DAEs, PDEs)
    and static systems (linear/nonlinear systems of equations). Most algorithms
    are implemented as Single Program Multiple Data (SPMD).
    
Example:
    Compute directional derivatives of the function f(J)::
        
        import numpy
        from algopy.utp import UTPM, qr, solve, dot, eigh
        
        def f(J):
            Q,R = qr(J)
            Id = numpy.eye(Np)
            Rinv = solve(R,Id)
            C = dot(Rinv,Rinv.T)
            l,U = eigh(C)
            return l[0]
            
Features:

    Univariate Taylor Propagation:
    
        * Univariate Taylor Propagation on Scalars  (UTPS)
          Implementation in: `algopy.utps`
        * Univariate Taylor Propagation on Matrices (UTPM)
          Implementation in: `algopy.utpm`
        * Exact Interpolation of Higher Order Derivative Tensors:
          (Hessians, etc.)
          
    Reverse Mode:
    
        ALGOPY also features functionality for convenient differentiation of a given
        algorithm. For that, the sequence of operation is recorded by tracing the 
        evaluation of the algorithm. Implementation in: `./algopy/tracer.py`
   

Dependencies:

    ALGOPY Core:
        * numpy
        * scipy

    ALGOPY Examples:
        * pyadolc

    Run tests:
        * Nose

Alternatives:

    If you are looking for a robust tool for AD in Python you should try:
        
        * `PYADOLC`_ a Python wrapper for ADOL-C (C++)
        * `PYCPPAD`_ a Python wrapper for  CppAD (C++)
        
    However, their support for differentiation of Numerical Linear Algebra (NLA)
    functions is only very limited.

    .. _PYADOLC: http://www.github.com/b45ch1/pyadolc
    .. _PYCPPAD: http://www.github.com/b45ch1/pycppad

Email:
    sebastian.walter@gmail.com



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Licence:
    BSD style using http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php template
    as it was on 2009-01-24 with the following substutions:
    
    * <YEAR> = 2008-2009
    * <OWNER> = Sebastian F. Walter, sebastian.walter@gmail.com
    * <ORGANIZATION> = contributors' organizations
    * In addition, "Neither the name of the contributors' organizations" was changed to "Neither the names of the contributors' organizations"
    
 
Copyright (c) 2008-2009, Seastian F. Walter
All rights reserved.
 
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
 
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
      and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    * Neither the names of the contributors' organizations nor the names of
      its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
      this software without specific prior written permission.
 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Commit message:

improved tracer getting started added more info to where to find documentation to the readme.rst

README.rst, after:

ALGOPY, a library for Automatic Differentation (AD) in Python
-------------------------------------------------------------

Description:
    ALGOPY allows you to differentiate functions implemented as computer programs
    by using Algorithmic Differentiation (AD) techniques in the forward and
    reverse mode.
    
    Speciality of ALGOPY is the possibility to differentiate functions that contain
    matrix functions as +,-,*,/, dot, solve, qr, eigh, cholesky.

Rationale:
    ALGOPY is a research prototype striving to provide state of the art algorithms.
    The ultimative goal is to provide high performance algorithms
    that can be used to differentiate dynamic systems  (ODEs, DAEs, PDEs)
    and static systems (linear/nonlinear systems of equations). Most algorithms
    are implemented as Single Program Multiple Data (SPMD).
    
Example:
    Compute directional derivatives of the function f(J)::
        
        import numpy
        from algopy.utp import UTPM, qr, solve, dot, eigh
        
        def f(J):
            Q,R = qr(J)
            Id = numpy.eye(Np)
            Rinv = solve(R,Id)
            C = dot(Rinv,Rinv.T)
            l,U = eigh(C)
            return l[0]

    For more examples have a look at:
        1) the talks in the documentation folder
        2) the examples in the documentation/examples folder
        3) the sphinx documentation in documentation/sphinx

            
Features:

    Univariate Taylor Propagation:
    
        * Univariate Taylor Propagation on Scalars  (UTPS)
          Implementation in: `algopy.utps`
        * Univariate Taylor Propagation on Matrices (UTPM)
          Implementation in: `algopy.utpm`
        * Exact Interpolation of Higher Order Derivative Tensors:
          (Hessians, etc.)
          
    Reverse Mode:
    
        ALGOPY also features functionality for convenient differentiation of a given
        algorithm. For that, the sequence of operation is recorded by tracing the 
        evaluation of the algorithm. Implementation in: `./algopy/tracer.py`
   

Dependencies:

    ALGOPY Core:
        * numpy
        * scipy

    ALGOPY Examples:
        * pyadolc

    Run tests:
        * Nose
        
    Documentation:
        * sphinx

Alternatives:

    If you are looking for a robust tool for AD in Python you should try:
        
        * `PYADOLC`_ a Python wrapper for ADOL-C (C++)
        * `PYCPPAD`_ a Python wrapper for  CppAD (C++)
        
    However, their support for differentiation of Numerical Linear Algebra (NLA)
    functions is only very limited.

    .. _PYADOLC: http://www.github.com/b45ch1/pyadolc
    .. _PYCPPAD: http://www.github.com/b45ch1/pycppad

Email:
    sebastian.walter@gmail.com



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Licence:
    BSD style using http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php template
    as it was on 2009-01-24 with the following substutions:
    
    * <YEAR> = 2008-2009
    * <OWNER> = Sebastian F. Walter, sebastian.walter@gmail.com
    * <ORGANIZATION> = contributors' organizations
    * In addition, "Neither the name of the contributors' organizations" was changed to "Neither the names of the contributors' organizations"
    
 
Copyright (c) 2008-2009, Seastian F. Walter
All rights reserved.
 
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
 
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
      and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    * Neither the names of the contributors' organizations nor the names of
      its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
      this software without specific prior written permission.
 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
